# jlox

This is my tree-walk interpreter for the Lox programming language created while following Robert Nystrom's "Crafting Interpreters". The implementation has now been completed. It has a working scanner, parser and interpreter with support for variables, if statements, for/while loops, functions, classes, local scope in the form of block statements and inheritance. The last feature that we are going to add is inheritance. I'll try to write down all the basic syntax sometime soon, so people know how to write in Lox.

The current workflow of the project is to take the source file, read it as a string and convert it to "tokens" (basically atttaching a meaning to groups of text: what type they are, value, etc.). The next step is to take the tokens and create "expressions", "statements" out of them. What that means is to take a series of tokens and attach some more meaning to them (grouping them together and defining what the tokens represent in a larger context based on the language grammar that we have defined). This is very similar to the previous step, we're just forming expressions/statements out of sequence of tokens instead of tokens out of sequence of characters. In terms of heirarchy, statements come above expressions. Expressions are like a sub-class (not in the literal java sense) of statements. We have an "expression statement" that acts like a wrapper for all expressions. The Parser converts the text to a "syntax tree" made up of a few basic types of expression and statement nodes that we have defined and it's job ends. Before we send the syntax tree to the interpreter, we do a variable resolution pass through the tree once. It basically tells the interpreter which variable corresponds to which declaration and does a few error checks (like no return statements outside functions) so that the interpreter doesn't encounter anything weird.The interpreter class then takes the syntax-tree as input and then evaluates it.

# How to use

Fire up your favorite java IDE (I used eclipse to build this) and import the project into it. Run Lox.java without any arguments to run it in a shell-like mode (REPL)
or provide it with a filepath to your Lox program (you can just write it in a .txt file somewhere).